PRY(1) -- A Reference to the PRY repl.
======================================

##Synopsis
#

## DESCRIPTION

Pry is a powerful alternative to the standard IRB shell for Ruby. It is written from scratch to provide a number of advanced features.

## HOMEPAGE

http://pry.github.com/

##OPTIONS

* `-v --version`:
  Prints the version of Pry.

* `-e --exec`:
  Executes argument in context before the session starts.

* `--no-pager`:
  Disable pager for long output.

* `--no-history`:
  Disable history loading.

* `--no-color`:
  Disable syntax highlighting for session.

* `-f`:
  Prevent loading of ~/.pryrc for session.

* `--no-plugins`:
  Supress loading of plugins.

* `--installed-plugins`:
  List installed plugins.

* `--simple-prompt`:
  Enable simple prompt mode (eg, >>).

* `-r --require`:
  Require a ruby script at startup.

* `-I`:
  Add a path to the $LOAD_PATH

* `-c --context`:
  Start the session in the specified context.  Equivalent to `context.pry` in a session.

##FILES

~/.pryrc Personal pry initialization

##Pry Commands

* `(?-mix:amend-line(?: (-?\d+)(?:\.\.(-?\d+))?)?)`:
Amend a line of input in multi-line mode.
	      Amend a line of input in multi-line mode. `amend-line N`, where the N in `amend-line N` represents line to replace.

      Can also specify a range of lines using `amend-line N..M` syntax. Passing '!' as replacement content deletes the line(s) instead.
      e.g amend-line 1 puts 'hello world! # replace line 1'
      e.g amend-line 1..4 !               # delete lines 1..4
      e.g amend-line 3 >puts 'goodbye'    # insert before line 3
      e.g amend-line puts 'hello again'   # no line number modifies immediately preceding line


* `!`:
Clear the input buffer. Useful if the parsing process goes wrong and you get stuck in the read loop.
	Clear the input buffer. Useful if the parsing process goes wrong and you get stuck in the read loop.

* `!pry`:
Start a Pry session on current self; this even works mid multi-line expression.
	Start a Pry session on current self; this even works mid multi-line expression.

* `cat`:
Show code from a file, Pry's input buffer, or the last exception.
	      Usage: cat FILE
             cat --ex [STACK_INDEX]
             cat --in [INPUT_INDEX_OR_RANGE]

      cat is capable of showing part or all of a source file, the context of the
      last exception, or an expression from Pry's input history.

      cat --ex defaults to showing the lines surrounding the location of the last
      exception. Invoking it more than once travels up the exception's backtrace,
      and providing a number shows the context of the given index of the backtrace.


* `cd`:
Move into a new context (object or scope).
	      Usage: cd [OPTIONS] [--help]

      Move into new context (object or scope). As in unix shells use
      `cd ..` to go back, `cd /` to return to Pry top-level and `cd -`
      to toggle between last two scopes).
      Complex syntax (e.g `cd ../@x/y`) also supported.

      e.g: `cd @x`
      e.g: `cd ..`
      e.g: `cd /`
      e.g: `cd -`

      https://github.com/pry/pry/wiki/State-navigation#wiki-Changing_scope


* `disable-pry`:
Stops all future calls to pry and exits the current session.
	      Usage: disable-pry

      After this command is run any further calls to pry will immediately return
      `nil` without interrupting the flow of your program. This is particularly
      useful when you've debugged the problem you were having, and now wish the
      program to run to the end.

      As alternatives, consider using `exit!` to force the current ruby process
      to quit immediately; or using `edit-method -p` to remove the `binding.pry`
      from the code.


* `nyan-cat`:

	

* `(?-mix:!s\/(.*?)\/(.*?))`:

	

* `get-naked`:

	

* `east-coker`:

	

* `cohen-poem`:

	

* `pessoa-poem`:

	

* `test-ansi`:

	

* `edit`:
Invoke the default editor on a file.
	      Usage: edit [--no-reload|--reload] [--line LINE] [--temp|--ex|FILE[:LINE]|--in N]

      Open a text editor. When no FILE is given, edits the pry input buffer.
      Ensure Pry.config.editor is set to your editor of choice.

      e.g: `edit sample.rb`
      e.g: `edit sample.rb --line 105`
      e.g: `edit --ex`

      https://github.com/pry/pry/wiki/Editor-integration#wiki-Edit_command


* `edit-method`:
Edit the source code for a method.
	      Usage: edit-method [OPTIONS] [METH]

      Edit the method METH in an editor.
      Ensure Pry.config.editor is set to your editor of choice.

      e.g: `edit-method hello_method`
      e.g: `edit-method Pry#rep`
      e.g: `edit-method`

      https://github.com/pry/pry/wiki/Editor-integration#wiki-Edit_method


* `exit`:
Pop the previous binding (does NOT exit program). Aliases: quit
	      Usage:   exit [OPTIONS] [--help]
      Aliases: quit

      It can be useful to exit a context with a user-provided value. For
      instance an exit value can be used to determine program flow.

      e.g: `exit "pry this"`
      e.g: `exit`

      https://github.com/pry/pry/wiki/State-navigation#wiki-Exit_with_value


* `quit`:
Alias for `exit`
	Alias for `exit`

* `exit-all`:
End the current Pry session (popping all bindings) and returning to caller. Accepts optional return value. Aliases: !!@
	End the current Pry session (popping all bindings) and returning to caller. Accepts optional return value. Aliases: !!@

* `!!@`:
Alias for `exit-all`
	Alias for `exit-all`

* `exit-program`:
End the current program. Aliases: quit-program, !!!
	End the current program. Aliases: quit-program, !!!

* `quit-program`:
Alias for `exit-program`
	Alias for `exit-program`

* `!!!`:
Alias for `exit-program`
	Alias for `exit-program`

* `find-method`:
Recursively search for a method within a Class/Module or the current namespace. find-method [-n | -c] METHOD [NAMESPACE]
	      Usage: find-method  [-n | -c] METHOD [NAMESPACE]

      Recursively search for a method within a Class/Module or the current namespace.
      Use the `-n` switch (the default) to search for methods whose name matches the given regex.
      Use the `-c` switch to search for methods that contain the given code.

      e.g find-method re Pry                # find all methods whose name match /re/ inside the Pry namespace. Matches Pry#repl, etc.
      e.g find-method -c 'output.puts' Pry  # find all methods that contain the code: output.puts inside the Pry namepsace.


* `gem-cd`:
Change working directory to specified gem's directory.
	      Usage: gem-cd GEM_NAME

      Change the current working directory to that in which the given gem is installed.


* `gem-install`:
Install a gem and refresh the gem cache.
	      Usage: gem-install GEM_NAME

      Installs the given gem and refreshes the gem cache so that you can immediately 'require GEM_FILE'


* `gem-list`:
List and search installed gems.
	      Usage: gem-list [REGEX]

      List all installed gems, when a regex is provided, limit the output to those that
      match the regex.


* `gem-open`:
Opens the working directory of the gem in your editor
	      Usage: gem-open GEM_NAME

      Change the current working directory to that in which the given gem is installed,
      and then opens your text editor.


* `gist`:
Upload code, docs, history to https://gist.github.com/
	      Usage: gist [options]
      Upload code, docs, history to https://gist.github.com/

      If you'd like to associate your gists with your GitHub account, run:
          gist --login

e.g.: gist -m my_method                 # gist the method my_method 
e.g.: gist -d my_method                 # gist the docs for my_method 
e.g.: gist -i 1..2                      # gist the input expressions from 1 to 2 
e.g.: gist -k show-method               # gists pry command show-method 
e.g.: gist -c Pry::Method               # gist the Pry::Method class 
e.g.: jist -c Pry::Method               # alias for the above 
e.g.: gist -m my_method --lines 2..-2   # limit by range 
e.g.: gist -m my_method --clip          # copy (but do not gist) 
e.g.: clipit -m my_method               # alias for the above 


* `clipit`:
Alias for `gist --clip`
	Alias for `gist --clip`

* `jist`:
Alias for `gist`
	Alias for `gist`

* `help`:
Show a list of commands. Type `help <foo>` for information about <foo>.
	      Usage: help [ COMMAND ]

      With no arguments, help lists all the available commands in the current
      command-set along with their description.

      When given a command name as an argument, shows the help for that command.


* `hist`:
Show and replay Readline history. Aliases: history
	      Usage: hist
             hist --head N
             hist --tail N
             hist --show START..END
             hist --grep PATTERN
             hist --clear
             hist --replay START..END
             hist --save [START..END] FILE


* `history`:
Alias for `hist`
	Alias for `hist`

* `import-set`:
Import a command set.
	Import a command set.

* `install-command`:
Install a disabled command.
	      Usage: install-command COMMAND

      Installs the gems necessary to run the given COMMAND. You will generally not
      need to run this unless told to by an error message.


* `jump-to`:
Jump to a binding further up the stack, popping all bindings below.
	Jump to a binding further up the stack, popping all bindings below.

* `ls`:
Show the list of vars and methods in the current scope.
	Show the list of vars and methods in the current scope.

* `nesting`:
Show nesting information.
	Show nesting information.

* `play`:
Play back a string variable or a method or a file as input.
	      Usage: play [OPTIONS] [--help]

      The play command enables you to replay code from files and methods as
      if they were entered directly in the Pry REPL. Default action (no
      options) is to play the provided string variable.

      e.g: `play 149..153`
      e.g: `play -i 20 --lines 1..3`
      e.g: `play -m Pry#repl --lines 1..-1`
      e.g: `play -f Rakefile --lines 5`

      https://github.com/pry/pry/wiki/User-Input#wiki-Play


* `pry-backtrace`:
Show the backtrace for the Pry session.
	      Usage:   pry-backtrace [OPTIONS] [--help]

      Show the backtrace for the position in the code where Pry was started. This can be used to
      infer the behavior of the program immediately before it entered Pry, just like the backtrace
      property of an exception.

      (NOTE: if you are looking for the backtrace of the most recent exception raised,
      just type: `_ex_.backtrace` instead, see https://github.com/pry/pry/wiki/Special-Locals)

      e.g: pry-backtrace


* `pry-version`:
Show Pry version.
	Show Pry version.

* `(?-mix:raise-up(!?\b.*))`:
Raise an exception out of the current pry instance.
	      Raise up, like exit, allows you to quit pry. Instead of returning a value however, it raises an exception.
      If you don't provide the exception to be raised, it will use the most recent exception (in pry _ex_).

      e.g. `raise-up "get-me-out-of-here"` is equivalent to:
           `raise "get-me-out-of-here"
            raise-up`

      When called as raise-up! (with an exclamation mark), this command raises the exception through
      any nested prys you have created by "cd"ing into objects.


* `reload-method`:
Reload the source file that contains the specified method
	Reload the source file that contains the specified method

* `reset`:
Reset the REPL to a clean state.
	Reset the REPL to a clean state.

* `ri`:
View ri documentation. e.g `ri Array#each`
	      Usage: ri [spec]
      e.g. ri Array#each

      Relies on the rdoc gem being installed. See also: show-doc.


* `save-file`:
Export to a file using content from the REPL.
	      Usage: save-file [OPTIONS] [FILE]
      Save REPL content to a file.
      e.g: save-file -m my_method -m my_method2 ./hello.rb
      e.g: save-file -i 1..10 ./hello.rb --append
      e.g: save-file -k show-method ./my_command.rb
      e.g: save-file -f sample_file --lines 2..10 ./output_file.rb


* `(?-mix:\.(.*))`:
All text following a '.' is forwarded to the shell.
	All text following a '.' is forwarded to the shell.

* `shell-mode`:
Toggle shell mode. Bring in pwd prompt and file completion.
	Toggle shell mode. Bring in pwd prompt and file completion.

* `file-mode`:
Alias for `shell-mode`
	Alias for `shell-mode`

* `show-command`:
Show the source for CMD.
	Show the source for CMD.

* `show-doc`:
Show the documentation for a method or class. Aliases: ?
	      Usage: show-doc [OPTIONS] [METH]
      Aliases: ?

      Show the documentation for a method or class. Tries instance methods first and then methods by default.
      e.g show-doc hello_method    # docs for hello_method
      e.g show-doc Pry             # docs for Pry class
      e.g show-doc Pry -a          # docs for all definitions of Pry class (all monkey patches)


* `?`:
Alias for `show-doc`
	Alias for `show-doc`

* `show-input`:
Show the contents of the input buffer for the current multi-line expression.
	Show the contents of the input buffer for the current multi-line expression.

* `show-source`:
Show the source for a method or class. Aliases: $, show-method
	      Usage: show-source [OPTIONS] [METH|CLASS]
      Aliases: $, show-method

      Show the source for a method or class. Tries instance methods first and then methods by default.

      e.g: `show-source hello_method`
      e.g: `show-source -m hello_method`
      e.g: `show-source Pry#rep`         # source for Pry#rep method
      e.g: `show-source Pry`             # source for Pry class
      e.g: `show-source Pry -a`          # source for all Pry class definitions (all monkey patches)
      e.g: `show-source Pry --super      # source for superclass of Pry (Object class)

      https://github.com/pry/pry/wiki/Source-browsing#wiki-Show_method


* `show-method`:
Alias for `show-source`
	Alias for `show-source`

* `$`:
Alias for `show-source`
	Alias for `show-source`

* `simple-prompt`:
Toggle the simple prompt.
	Toggle the simple prompt.

* `stat`:
View method information and set _file_ and _dir_ locals.
	        Usage: stat [OPTIONS] [METH]
        Show method information for method METH and set _file_ and _dir_ locals.
        e.g: stat hello_method


* `switch-to`:
Start a new sub-session on a binding in the current stack (numbered by nesting).
	Start a new sub-session on a binding in the current stack (numbered by nesting).

* `toggle-color`:
Toggle syntax highlighting.
	Toggle syntax highlighting.

* `whereami`:
Show code surrounding the current context.
	      Usage: whereami [-q] [N]

      Describe the current location. If you use `binding.pry` inside a
      method then whereami will print out the source for that method.

      If a number is passed, then N lines before and after the current line
      will be shown instead of the method itself.

      The `-q` flag can be used to suppress error messages in the case that
      there's no code to show. This is used by pry in the default
      before_session hook to show you when you arrive at a `binding.pry`.

      When pry was started on an Object and there is no associated method,
      whereami will instead output a brief description of the current
      object.


* `(?-mix:wtf([?!]*))`:
Show the backtrace of the most recent exception
	      Show's a few lines of the backtrace of the most recent exception (also available
      as _ex_.backtrace).

      If you want to see more lines, add more question marks or exclamation marks:

      e.g.
      pry(main)> wtf?
      pry(main)> wtf?!???!?!?

      To see the entire backtrace, pass the -v/--verbose flag:

      e.g.
      pry(main)> wtf -v

##EXAMPLES

###Basic Usage


    $ pry
    [1] pry(main)>4 + 5
    => 9
    [2] pry(main)> def hello_world
    [2] pry(main)*   puts "Hello, World!"
    [2] pry(main)* end  
    => nil
    [3] pry(main)> hello_world
    Hello, World!
    => nil

###Command Line Interaction


Prefix any command you want your shell to execute with a period and pry will return the results from your shell.

    [1] pry(main)> .date
    Fri Nov 11 09:52:07 EST 2011

On the command line enter `shell-mode` to incorporate the current working directory into the Pry prompt.

    pry(main)> shell-mode
    pry main:/Users/john/ruby/projects/pry $ .cd ..
    pry main:/Users/john/ruby/projects $ .cd ~
    pry main:/Users/john $ .pwd
    /Users/john
    pry main:/Users/john $ shell-mode
    pry(main)>

###State Navigation


The cd command is used to move into a new object (or scope) inside a Pry session.  When inside the new scope it becomes the self for the session and all commands and methods will operate on this new self.

    pry(main)> self
    => main
    pry(main)> cd Pry
    pry(Pry):1> self
    => Pry
    pry(Pry):1> cd ..
    pry(main)>

The ls command is essentially a unified wrapper to a number of Ruby's introspection mechanisms, including (but not limited to) the following methods: methods, instance\_variables, constants, local\_variables, instance\_methods, class_variables and all the various permutations thereof.

By default typing ls will return a list of just the local and instance variables available in the current context.

* The -M option selects public instance methods (if available).
* The -m option selects public methods.
* The -c option selects constants.
* The -i option select just instance variables.
* The -l option selects just local variables.
* The -s option modifies the -c and -m and -M options to go up the superclass chain (excluding Object).
* The --grep REGEX prunes the list to items that match the regex.

###Source Browsing


Simply typing show-method method_name will pull the source for the method and display it with syntax highlighting. You can also look up the source for multiple methods at the same time, by typing show-method method1 method2. As a convenience, Pry looks up both instance methods and class methods using this syntax, with priority given to instance methods.

    pry(Pry):1> show-method rep

    From: /Users/john/ruby/projects/pry/lib/pry/pry_instance.rb @ line 191:
    Number of lines: 6

    def rep(target=TOPLEVEL_BINDING)
      target = Pry.binding_for(target)
      result = re(target)

      show_result(result) if should_print?
    end

##AUTHORS

Pry is primarily the work of John Mair (banisterfiend)
